Add an `otelcol.connector.spanlogs` flow component (#4713)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.spanlogs.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.spanlogs/
title: otelcol.processor.spanlogs
---

# otelcol.processor.spanlogs

`otelcol.processor.spanlogs` accepts traces telemetry data from other `otelcol`
components and outputs logs telemetry data for each span, root, or process.

> This allows for automatically building a mechanism for trace
> discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to automatically build a mechanism for trace discovery.
```

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.processor.spanlogs` is a custom component unrelated 
> to any processors from the OpenTelemetry Collector. It is based on the 
> `automatic_logging` processor in the 
> [traces](../../../static/configuration/traces-config.md) 
> subsystem of the Agent static mode.

> Multiple `otelcol.processor.spanlogs` components can be specified by giving them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify multiple `otelcol.processor.spanlogs` components by giving them
```

different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.processor.spanlogs "LABEL" {
  output {
    logs    = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.processor.spanlogs` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`spans` | `bool` | Log one line per span. | `false` | no
`roots` | `bool` | Log one line for every root span of a trace. | `false` | no
`processes` | `bool` | Log one line for every process. | `false` | no
`span_attributes` | `list(string)` | Additional span attributes to log. | `[]` | no
`process_attributes` | `list(string)` | Additional process attributes to log. | `[]` | no

> `labels` | `list(string)` | A lists of keys which will be logged as labels. | `[]` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`labels` | `list(string)` | A list of keys that will be logged as labels. | `[]` | no
```

The values listed in `labels` should be values of either span or process attributes.

> **WARNING**: Setting `spans` to `true` could lead to a high volume of logs.

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`otelcol.processor.spanlogs`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
overrides | [overrides][] | Overrides for keys in the log body. | no
output | [output][] | Configures where to send received telemetry data. | yes

[output]: #output-block
[overrides]: #overrides-block

### overrides block

> The `overrides` block configures overrides for keys which will be logged in the body of the log line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `overrides` block configures overrides for keys that will be logged in the body of the log line.
```

The following attributes are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `logs_instance_tag` | `string` | Indicates if the log line is for a span, root or process. | `traces` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`logs_instance_tag` | `string` | Indicates if the log line is for a span, root, or process. | `traces` | no
```

`service_key` | `string` | Log key for the service name of the resource. | `svc` | no
`span_name_key` | `string` | Log key for the name of the span. | `span` | no
`status_key` | `string` | Log key for the status of the span. | `status` | no
`duration_key` | `string` | Log key for the duration of the span. | `dur` | no
`trace_id_key` | `string` | Log key for the trace ID of the span. | `tid` | no

### output block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/output-block-logs.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to.

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics,
logs, or traces).

## Component health

`otelcol.processor.spanlogs` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.processor.spanlogs` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

> The configuration below sends logs derived from spans to Loki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration sends logs derived from spans to Loki.
```
